Silos can separate different types
of employees, departments or processes.
An organizational silo can be made up of people
in one department, such as fiscal or logistics.
A silo also can extend across departments
to include similar worker types,
such as warehouse staff or purchasing staff.
Silos often separate higher level employees from
front-line workers, such as,
service chiefs or inventory managers.
Silos can also be geographical.
As in the case where workers in different
offices square off against each other.
Which can be seen with some logistics
departments as different VA's.
Silos form when employees develop more loyalty
to a group than to the employer.
As silos solidify, members become more insular
and distrustful of other employees or departments.
Silos usually form due to attempts to optimize
their specific portion of the supply chain to reduce cost.
This can result in the entire supply chain
operating below its potential.
Silos are like fortresses within a company,
and eventually cause serious problems that
might not be noticed until the damage is done.
Organizational silos usually are resistant to change.
Operating to prevent easy access to the information
they hold, and throwing out barriers
to change and cooperation.
Silos make it difficult for communication
and collaboration to occur across units.
Each group works to protect its own interests.